Most asked java interview questions

1. what is Future and Completable Future in java
2. what is Concurrent hashmap in java. how it locks the hashmap bucket? can we modify other buket which is not locked at the same time.
3. what is immutable in java? How can you create your own immutable class in java? write code (cover all scenarios)
4. How do you create your own exception class?
5. how do you handle exception in spring boot application?
6. How do you create Singleton class in java. difference between singleton and immutable class?
7. spring bean scopes? 
8. Can you tell me HashSet internal how it store elements and compares? (HashSet is internally a Hashmap)
9. why Arraylist came when java has already Array to handle multiple objects? how Arraylist works internally?
10. what is functional interface? why it is required?
11. what is streams api in java? give example?
12. features of java 11 and java 8
13. explain oops features with example/usecase?
14. what is overriding? exmplain overriding whith respect to return type of method?
15. what is factory design patternt? explain code?
16. How do you write test case in your spring boot application? what is Mockito? how do you Mock a object in spring boot test case?
17. How autoconfiguration works in spring boot application?
18. difference between spring boot and spring? why spring boot?
19. explain @SpringBootApplication annotation?
20. how do you call one service to another service in spring boot?
21. How garbez collector works in java?
22. dfference between finally, final and finalize?
23. what is treeset? difference between set and Treeset?
24. How spring maintains transactions? what is @Transactional? why it is required. Explain @Transactional and its verious variations?
25. what is cache? how to implement cache in spring boot application?
26. explian jvm archetecture?
27. How dependency injection works in spring? how many types of depedency injection? explain each?
28. Difference between @Controller vs @RestController?
29. what is @RequestBody? 
30. how to handle Pathvariable and Query params in spring boot apllication (mvc)
31. Explain spring application MVC flow (internals)
32. How to connect with multiple database from your spring boot applicaiton? (one oracle another may be mysql)
33. Difference between Comparable and Comaparator? write example code?
34. why StringBuilder is requried when String is already there? diff between StringBuilder vs StringBuffer?
35. Difference between Concurrent HashMap vs Collections.synchronizedMap()
36. How do you version your spring boot api? (how do you maintain multiple version of your api)
37. what is swagger? How do you implement swagger in your spring boot application?
38. How do you integrate react front end application with spring boot back end applicaiton?
39. How do you secure your rest endpoints in spring boot applicaiton?


Coding questions
------------------
1. find the longest substring(non repeating characters) in below string
 input = "thisisthelogestsubstr"
2. word count in a sentence
input = "Java java Java java Spring spring Hibernate"
ouput 
    spring = 1
    Java = 2
    Hibernate = 1
    java = 2
    Spring = 1
3. find the prefix which is present in all the words
 input = pers, persis, perp, persist
4. find the maximul loss in below array of stock prices
 [234, 256, 345, 554, 112, 231, 456, 779] (buying in one point and selling in any future point)
5. print the numbers which has 1 at second digit
  [234, 215, 11, 457, 8182, 34, 41] (dont use any string or ascii methods, only use number manipulation)
6. find out the biggest number of the factorial of the number
 input = 24
 output = 4 (as the 4 is the biggest number of the factorials of 24)
8. find out all the unquie lettes in below String
 input = "Herearetheletters"
9. How to find if all the elements of one list present in another list? (best solution)
10. move all even elements to left and odds to right in a number array. (inplace)
11. reverse each word in a sentence?
12. find the adjacent repeated numbers occurance in an array. [1,1,3,4,4] the answer is 2 becasue the adjacent repeated elements occurance is 2 times. for this array [3,3,3,3] the answer is 1. 
13. [[3,6,9], [2,5,8,3], [5,2,7,1]]. convert to single dimentional array without duplicates and ascending order without using any predefined methods
14. develop your own stack program. (stack -> last in first out)
15. find the first non repeating character in this string "aerearetheletters".
16. find the number of sub arrays with unique elemnts. [2,3,4,5,6,2,1,4,7,8,5,9,0,5]



